## December 4, 2024

(Jack Byrne pre meeting notes)

Data source – GHGI worksheet updated in Fall for each fiscal year. Contains fuel source and primary data that is converted to metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents. Includes carbon emitting sources owned by the college at the main campus, Bread Loaf, and Snow Bowl. Also includes mtcde’s for college purchased travel based on spending for airfare, mileage, and other travel modes. 
 
Should also include notes about how biomass is/is not counted and rationale. Same for renewable natural gas
 
Also should have a good note on approach to carbon neutrality and role of Bread Loaf carbon project and management.
 
Have a short piece on history of carbon neutrality and Energy2028 for context also.
 
Point to midd.data environmental data site with an overview of what’s there and how to use.
 
Base level views: 
mtcde
total mtcde emissions from all sources by fiscal year

mtcde emissions by scope and subscope (S1-2-3)
fuel/electricity/travel/waste

Fuel consumption by source (#6, propane, woodchips, etc) by scope

Electricity consumption (if appropriate) and sources – could be by percentage if raw data not appropriate. May want to include GMP sources for electricity purchased alongside college owned generation.

May exclude dollar sources view for travel if not appropriate – could be percentages

Carbon credit generation

Total # of carbon credits generated by BL project by year and number of “buyback” credits used for carbon neutrality
 
Views could be generated for any and all parameters for various time spans chosen by users. Or, a standard set of graphs could be provided for each view profile and updated once a year. 
 
Questions
Should we also provide total square footage of buildings by year (would take some work)? Total campus population by year? (less but still some work to do it).
Include markers for various carbon targets on views? – 2004 goal 2012 , 2007 goal 2016, future goals?
 

###Oct 23, 2024

Potential use case for dashboard (Mike) : Select board for the town of Middlebury to divest from natural gas. VT gas has had to re apply for certificate of public good 
Dashboard- Very broadly -> take greenhouse gas inventory and create a dashboard or interactive visualization
Ideally- be able to look at changes over the years and see how close we are to energy 2028 goal 
Be able to see extremes of high and low temperatures and how that contributes to intensity of energy usage 
What parts of the codebook and inventory do we want to prioritize in the dashboard?
Scope 1 > direct and indirect combustion
Scope 2 > Electricity 
Important Disclosures & Boundaries 
It would be difficult (but not impossible) to incorporate scope 3 which is downstream and indirect emissions. If we don’t include this, it would be important to have information about what it is and why it is missing 
Energy 2028 only covers the main campus and was created for the purpose of carbon tracking 
General Process
Facilities keeps data for inventory > passes to Jack > Jack checks it then passes back to them 

**Past/Current/Potential Stakeholders**

Neal Durda (facilities data keeper)
Andrea Vaccari 
Emily Hogan 
Library 
Midd Data (?)
Sustainability Solutions Lab 

